DOC-6244: Added and updated Corda 4.12 release notes (#2169)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/platform/corda/4.12/community/release-notes.md

---

# Corda Open Source Edition 4.12 release notes

> The Corda Open Source Edition 4.12 release introduces upgrades to the Java and Kotlin versions, along with associated upgrade support. Apart from the features supporting the Java and Kotlin upgrade, no other major new features have been introduced. In this release Java has been upgraded to Java 17 from Java 8 and Kotlin has been upgraded to Kotlin 1.9.20 from 1.2.71.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Corda Open Source Edition 4.12 release introduces upgrades to the Java and Kotlin versions, along with associated upgrade support. Apart from the features supporting the Java and Kotlin upgrade, no other major new features have been introduced. In this release, Java has been upgraded to Java 17 from Java 8 and Kotlin has been upgraded to Kotlin 1.9.20 from 1.2.71.
```

## Upgrade recommendation

As a developer or node operator, you should upgrade to the [latest released version of Corda]({{< relref "../community/_index.md" >}}) as soon as possible. The latest Corda Open Source release notes are on this page, and for the latest upgrade guide, refer to [Corda Open Source Edition 4.11 to 4.12 upgrade guide]({{< relref "comm-upgrade-guide.md" >}}).

The steps from this guide only work for direct upgrades from Corda 4.11 to 4.12. If you have any nodes on versions 4.10 and below, you must upgrade them to 4.11 first. To do that, consult the relevant release upgrade documentation.

## Platform version change

Corda 4.12 uses platform version 140.

For more information about platform versions, see [Versioning]({{< relref "versioning.md" >}}).

## New features, enhancements and restrictions

### Java and Kotlin upgrade

Corda 4.12 requires Java 17 and Kotlin 1.9.20. This means that you must recompile any legacy CorDapps written for 4.11 or earlier to work with Java 17 and Kotlin 1.9 to be compatible with Corda 4.12. These upgrades enhance the supportability and security of Corda.

### Java 17 compatible releases of Corda SDKs

> A number of SDKs and libraries are provided with the base Corda package. These are their Java 17 and Kotlin 1.9 versions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A number of SDKs and libraries are provided with the base Corda package. These are the Corda internal versions compatible with Java 17:
```

Not sure the original was correct, maybe this is?

Author: Yes, that might not be very clear. Rephrased.

| ledger-graph              | 1.3                           |
| r3-tools                  | 4.12                          |

### Support for signature constraints only

Only CorDapps using signature constraints are supported in Corda 4.12; hash constraints are not supported. Using signature constraints has been recommended in previous releases of Corda as it eases the CorDapp upgrade process. If you have any 4.11 CorDapps using hash constraints, you must migrate them to signature constraints on 4.11 before upgrading to 4.12.

### Corda 4.11 and 4.12 CorDapps must be signed by the same set of keys

Once you have recompiled your 4.12 CorDapps for Java 17 and Kotlin 1.9.20, you must sign them using the same set of keys used by the 4.11 CorDapp.

### Explicit contract upgrade is not supported

Explicit contract upgrade is not supported in Corda 4.12.

### `toLedgerTransaction.verify` does not work for legacy transactions

You must review your CorDapps and check for any making the following calls:
* `SignedTransaction.toLedgerTransaction().verify()`
* `WireTransaction.toLedgerTransaction().verify()`
* `TransactionBuilder.toLedgerTransaction().verify()`

> CorDapps that make the above calls, will not work for legacy transactions. To have those CorDapps work, change them to `SignedTransaction.verify()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CorDapps that make the above calls will not work for legacy transactions. To make those CorDapps compatible, change them to `SignedTransaction.verify()`.
```

### Corda node explorer not supported on Java 17

The node explorer has not been converted to use Java 17 and is not provided in the release packs. If you wish to use a node explorer, the only current option is to use a 4.11 node explorer and use it to connect to a 4.12 node.

### Samples Kotlin and Java support

The following two public repositories provide various CorDapp samples (branch: release/4.12):
* [Samples Kotlin repository](https://github.com/corda/samples-kotlin/tree/release/4.12)
* [Samples Java repository](https://github.com/corda/samples-java/tree/release/4.12)

Most samples have been converted over to Java 17, Kotlin 1.9.20, and Gradle 7.6.4.

> The samples have been written to work with Corda Open Source. To convert a sample to work with Corda Enterprise at a minimum you need to point to a repository where your enterprise artifacts are installed and the artifact group name for ENT (`com.r3`) must be different from OS `(net.corda`). For example, switch `net.corda:corda-node-driver:4.12` (Corda OS) to `com.r3.corda:corda-node-driver:4.12` (Corda ENT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The samples have been written to work with Corda Open Source. To convert a sample to work with Corda Enterprise, then at a minimum you need to point to a repository where your enterprise artifacts are installed. Also, the artifact group name for ENT (`com.r3`) must be different from OS `(net.corda`). For example, switch `net.corda:corda-node-driver:4.12` (Corda OS) to `com.r3.corda:corda-node-driver:4.12` (Corda ENT).
```
